@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the GNU Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file guile-cv.texi for copying conditions.


@node Import Export
@subsection Import Export

The Guile-CV procedures and methods to load, save and query file system
images.

@subheading Procedures

@ifhtml
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{im-load}
@item @ref{im-save}
@item @ref{im-size}
@item @ref{im-width}
@item @ref{im-height}
@item @ref{im-n-channel}
@item @ref{im-gray?}
@item @ref{im-rgb?}
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end ifhtml


@anchor{im-load}
@deffn Procedure im-load filename

Returns a Guile-CV image.

Loads the image pointed by @var{filename} and returns a Guile-CV image.
@var{filename} can either be a GRAY or an RGB image.

At this point, Guile-CV supports the following file formats: GIF, TIFF,
JPEG, BMP, EXR, HDR, PNM (PBM, PGM, PPM), PNG, SunRaster, KHOROS-VIFF.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-save}
@deffn Procedure im-save image filename [scale #f]

Returns #t.

Saves @var{image} in @var{filename}.

The optional @var{scale} argument can take the following values:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item #f
pixel values are @samp{clipped}: values @code{< 0} are saved as
@code{0}, values @code{> 255} are saved as @code{255}, and otherwise are
saved unchanged

@item #t
all pixel values are scaled@footnote{Note that in this particular
context, @code{scale} does not mean a change in dimension, but rather
bringing pixel values from the range they occupy in memory to the
@code{[0 255]} range} to the @code{[0 255]} range
@end table
@end indentedblock

The type in which @var{image} is saved is determined by the
@var{filename} extension, as in the folowing example:

@lisp
(im-load "edx.png")
...
(im-save $4 "/tmp/edx.jpg")
@end lisp

@end deffn


@anchor{im-size}
@deffn Method im-size filename


Returns the list of @code{(@var{width} @var{height} @var{n-channel})for
@var{filename}}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-width}
@anchor{im-height}
@anchor{im-n-channel}
@deffn Method im-width filename
@deffnx Method im-height filename
@deffnx Method im-n-channel filename

Returns, respectively the @var{width}, the @var{height} and the
@var{n-channel} for @var{filename}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-gray?}
@anchor{im-rgb?}
@deffn Method im-gray? filename
@deffnx Method im-rgb? filename

Returns @code{#t} if @var{filename} is respectively a GRAY scale or an
RGB image.
@end deffn
