@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU Guile-CV version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying



@node Image Processing
@subsection Image Processing

The Guile-CV procedures and methods to process images.

@subheading Procedures

@ifhtml
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{im-resize}
@item @ref{im-resize-channel}
@item @ref{im-rotate}
@item @ref{im-rotate-channel}
@item @ref{im-flip}
@item @ref{im-flip-channel}
@item @ref{im-crop-size}
@item @ref{im-crop}
@item @ref{im-crop-channel}
@item @ref{im-padd-size}
@item @ref{im-padd}
@item @ref{im-padd-channel}
@item @ref{im-rgb->grey}
@item @ref{im-threshold}
@item @ref{im-and}
@item @ref{im-or}
@item @ref{im-complement}
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end ifhtml


@anchor{im-resize}
@anchor{im-resize-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-resize image new-width new-height @
       [#:i-mode 'bilinear]
@deffnx Procedure im-resize-channel channel width height new-width new-height @
        [#:i-mode 'bilinear]

Returns a new image or chanbnel resized to @var{new-width},
@var{new-height}.

The interpolation mode @var{#:i-mode}, can be one of:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item none
@item bilinear
@item biquadratic
@item bicubic
@item ? (fixme) 
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end deffn


@anchor{im-rotate}
@anchor{im-rotate-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-rotate image angle [#:i-mode 'bilinear]
@deffnx Procedure im-rotate-channel channel width height angle @
        [#:i-mode 'bilinear]

Returns a new image or channel rotated by @var{angle}.

The @var{angle} is in degrees: @code{+/-[0.0 360.0]}.

It is neccessary, for rotations other than multiples of 90°, to
recalculate the target coordinates, since after the rotation, they might
be floats.  The 'next neighbor' interpolation possible modes,
@var{#:i-mode}, are:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item bilinear
@item biquadratic
@item bicubic
@item ? (fixme)
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end deffn


@anchor{im-flip}
@anchor{im-flip-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-flip image axis
@deffnx Procedure im-flip-channel channel width height axis

Returns a new image or channel flipped by @var{axis}.

The rotation @var{axis} can be one of:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item horizontal
@item vertical
@item both
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end deffn


@anchor{im-crop-size}
@deffn Procedure im-crop-size width height left top right bottom

Returns a list, @code{(new-width new-height)}.

Given the original image @var{width} and @var{height}, this procedure
checks that @var{left}, @var{top}, @var{right} and @var{bottom} are
valid and return a list, @code{(new-width new-height)}, otherwise, it
raises an error.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-crop}
@anchor{im-crop-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-crop image left top right bottom
@deffnx Procedure im-crop-channel channel width height left top right bottom @
        [#:new-w #f] [#:new-h #f]

Returns a new image, resulting of the crop of @var{image} at @var{left},
@var{top}, @var{right} and @var{bottom}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-padd-size}
@deffn Procedure im-padd-size width height left top right bottom

Returns a list, @code{(new-width new-height)}.

Given the original image @var{width} and @var{height}, this procedure
checks that @var{left}, @var{top}, @var{right} and @var{bottom} are
@code{>= 0.0} and return a list, @code{(new-width new-height)},
otherwise, it raises an error.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-padd}
@anchor{im-padd-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-padd image left top right bottom
@deffnx Procedure im-padd-channel channel width height left top right bottom @
        [#:new-w #f] [#:new-h #f]

Returns a new image, resulting of the padding of @var{image} by @var{left},
@var{top}, @var{right} and @var{bottom} pixels initialized to 0.0 
@end deffn


@c ;;;
@c ;;; Additional IP
@c ;;;


@anchor{im-rgb->grey}
@deffn Procedure im-rgb->grey image

Returns a new GREY image.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-threshold}
@deffn Procedure im-threshold image threshold @
       [#:bg 'dark] [#:prec 1.0e-4]

Returns a new BLACK and WHITE image.

Valid @var{#:bg} values are @code{'(dark light)}, the default is
@code{dark}. If @var{image} is an RGB image, @ref{im-rgb->grey} is first
called.

Pixels for which the original value is @code{>=} @var{threshold} are set
to 255.0 if @var{#:bg} is @code{'dark}, and set to 0.0 if @var{#:bg} is
@code{'light}. The other pixels are set to 0.0 or 255.0 respectively.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-and}
@anchor{im-or}
@deffn Procedure im-and i1 i2 i3 @dots{}
@deffnx Procedure im-or i1 i2 i3 @dots{}

Returns @var{image} if one argument only, otherwise, it returns a new
image, as the result of computing the logical @code{AND} or @code{OR} of
all images.

In the case of @code{AND}, for all positive results, the pixel value (of
each channel) of the new image is set to the one obtained from
@var{i1}, and @code{0.0} otherwise.

In the case of @code{OR}, the pixel value (of each channel) of the new
image is to the one obtained from @var{i1} when it is @code{> 0.0},
otherwise, it is set to the corresponding pixel mean value of all other
images.

All images must have the same @code{width} and @code{height}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-complement}
@deffn Procedure im-complement image

Returns a new image.

This procedure computes the mathematical complement of @var{image},
which for Guile-CV means that for each pixel of each channel, the new
value is @code{(- 255.0 pixel-value)}.
@end deffn
