@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU Guile-CV version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying



@node Image Structure and Accessors
@subsection Image Structure and Accessors

The Guile-CV procedures and methods related to images data structure,
creating, accessing ad copying images.


@subheading Image Data Structure

A Guile-CV image is represented by a list containing the following
elements:

@lisp
(@var{width} @var{height} @var{n-channel} @var{idata})
@end lisp

where @var{idata} is a list of @var{n-channel} elements, each element
being a vector of @code{(* @var{width} @var{height})} cells. More
precisely, each element is an @code{srfi-4} homogeneous numeric vector
of 32 bit floats, called @code{f32vector}, knowing that @code{f32} is
the C type @code{float}.

The external representation (ie. read syntax) for @var{idata} vectors is
@code{#f32(@dots{})}. As an example, a grey scale image of width 3 and
height 2, initialized to 0.0 is represnented by the following list:

@lisp
(3 2 1 (#f32(0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0)))
@end lisp

The @var{n-channel} is an integer @code{>= 1}, with no limit but the
memory size.  This said, most Guile-CV procedures and methods expect
either GREY scale (@var{n-channel=1}), or RGB (@var{n-channel=3})
images.  For the later, the channels are @code{Red}, @code{Green} and
@code{Blue} in that order.

Guile-CV provides usefull accessors for all these fields. However, very
often, you will need them all, in which case your best friend is
@code{(ice-9 match)}, here is an example:

@lisp
,use (cv)
(define image (im-make 4 3 3))
(match image
  ((width height n-chan idata)
   (match idata
     ((r g b)
      ... your code here ...))))
@end lisp

Note that the @code{(cv)} module imports and re-exports the public
interface of @code{(ice-9 match)}. You will find other examples the
module @code{(cv idata) }of Guile-CV's source code.


@subheading Procedures

@ifhtml
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{im-make}
@item @ref{im-make-channels}
@item @ref{im-make-channel}

@item @ref{im-copy}

@item @ref{im-size_}
@item @ref{im-width_}
@item @ref{im-height_}
@item @ref{im-n-channel_}
@item @ref{im-channels_}
@item @ref{im-channel}

@item @ref{im-image?}
@item @ref{im-binary?}
@item @ref{im-grey?_}
@item @ref{im-rgb?_}

@item @ref{im-=?}
@item @ref{im-list=?}

@item @ref{im-ref}
@item @ref{im-fast-ref}
@item @ref{im-set!}
@item @ref{im-fast-set!}

@item @ref{im-channel-offset}
@item @ref{im-fast-channel-offset}

@item @ref{im-channel-ref}
@item @ref{im-fast-channel-ref}
@item @ref{im-channel-set!}
@item @ref{im-fast-channel-set!}

@item @ref{im-collect}

@item @ref{im-display}
@item @ref{im-display-channel}
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end ifhtml


@anchor{im-make}
@anchor{im-make-channels}
@anchor{im-make-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-make width height n [value]
@deffnx Procedure im-make-channels width height n [value]
@deffnx Procedure im-make-channel width height [value]

Returns a new image, list of channels or channel.

Each channel is an srfi-4 homogeneous vector of 32 bit floats
(f32vector), of @var{width} by @var{height} initialized to
@var{value}. The default @var{value} is 0.0
@end deffn


@anchor{im-copy}
@deffn Procedure im-copy image

Returns a new fresh copy of @var{image}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-size_}
@deffn Method im-size image

Returns the list of @code{(@var{width} @var{height} @var{n-channel})for
@var{image}}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-width_}
@anchor{im-height_}
@anchor{im-n-channel_}
@anchor{im-channels_}
@anchor{im-channel}
@deffn Method im-width image
@deffnx Method im-height image
@deffnx Method im-n-channel image
@deffnx Method im-channels image
@deffnx Procedure im-channel image n

Returns, respectively the @var{width}, the @var{height}, @var{n-channel},
@var{channels} or the @var{n}th channel for @var{image}.

Caution: @code{im-channels} and @code{im-channel} return the @var{image}
either the list of or a specific channel, and should not be used in a
@code{repl}, unless on very small and testing images.  Otherwise, even
on small images, it might be ok in a terminal, but will definitely will
kill your emacs.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-image?}
@anchor{im-binary?}
@anchor{im-grey?_}
@anchor{im-rgb?_}
@deffn Procedure im-image? image
@deffnx Procedure im-binary? image
@deffnx Method im-grey? image
@deffnx Method im-rgb? image

Returns @code{#t} if @var{image} is respectively a Guile-CV image, a
BINARY (black and white), a GREY scale or an RGB image.

Notes: (a) @code{im-image?} is a relatively @samp{expensive} operation
and offered for debugging purposes, but it is not recommended to use
@samp{in production}; (b) because of the former, @code{im-grey?}  and
@code{im-rgb?} do _not_ check if @var{image} is a valid Guile-CV image,
instead, they only check for @var{n-channel=1} and @var{n-channel=3}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-=?}
@anchor{im-list=?}
@deffn Procedure im-=? [precision] i1 i2 i3 @dots{}
@deffnx Procedure im-list=? images [precision]

Returns @code{#t} if @var{i1} @var{i2} @var{i3} @dots{} or @var{images}
are of the same size, have the same number of channels that all
respectively contain the same values.

If the first argument for @code{im-=?} is a number, it is used as the
precision to compare pixel values: 1.0e-4 is the default precision
value.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-ref}
@anchor{im-fast-ref}
@deffn Procedure im-ref image i j [k]
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-ref image i j [k]

Returns the pixel value stored at position @var{i} and @var{j} of the
@var{image} channel @var{k}.  The default value for @var{k} is 0.

@var{im-fast-ref} does not check the validity of its arguments: use it
at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-set!}
@anchor{im-fast-set!}
@deffn Procedure im-set! image i j [k] value
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-set! image i j [k] value

Returns nothing.

Sets the pixel value stored at position @var{i} and @var{j} of the
@var{image} channel @var{k} to @var{value}.  The default value for
@var{k} is 0.

@var{im-fast-set!} does not check the validity of its arguments: use it
at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-channel-offset}
@anchor{im-fast-channel-offset}
@deffn Procedure im-channel-offset i j width height
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-channel-offset i j width

Returns the channel offset for the @var{i} and @var{j} indices, based on
the @var{width} and @var{height} of the channel.

This procedure converts the matrix indices @var{i} and @var{j} to a
vector offset for a channel of size @var{width} and @var{height}.

@var{im-fast-channel-offset} does not check the validity of its
arguments: use it at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-channel-ref}
@anchor{im-fast-channel-ref}
@deffn Procedure im-channel-ref channel i j width height
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-channel-ref channel i j width

Returns the pixel value stored at position @var{i} and @var{j} of the
channel of size @var{width} and @var{height}.

@var{im-fast-channel-ref} does not check the validity of its arguments:
use it at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-channel-set!}
@anchor{im-fast-channel-set!}
@deffn Procedure im-channel-set! channel i j width height value
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-channel-set! channel i j width value

Returns nothing.

Sets the pixel at position @var{i} and @var{j} of @var{channel} of size
@var{width} and @var{height} to @var{value}.

@var{im-fast-channel-set!} does not check the validity of its arguments:
use it at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-collect}
@deffn Procedure im-collect images what

Returns a list of @var{what} collected from the list of @var{images}.

The valid @var{what} synbols are:
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item size
@item width
@item height
@item n-channel
@item channels
@item chan-0, grey, red
@item chan-1, green
@item chan-2, blue
@item chan-k (*)
@end table
@end indentedblock

(*): whith k being a valid channel indice, [0 (- n 1)].
@end deffn


@anchor{im-display}
@anchor{im-display-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-display image @
       [#:proc identity] [#:port (current-output-port)]
@deffnx Procedure im-display-channel channel width height @
        [#:proc identity] [#:port (current-output-port)]

Returns nothing.

Displays the content of @var{image} or @var{channel} on @var{port},
applying @var{proc} to each pixel value.

@lisp
...
$5 = (3 2 3 (#f32(0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0) ... ...)
(im-display $5 #:proc inexact->exact)
@print{}
Channel 1
  0  1  2
  3  4  5
Channel 2
  6  7  8
  9  10  11
Channel 3
  12  13  14
  15  16  17
@end lisp

Caution: unless you specify @var{port}, both this and
@ref{im-display-channel} procedures are ment to be used on very small
and testing images, otherwise even on a small image, it might be ok in a
terminal, but it will definitely will kill your emacs.
@end deffn
