\input texinfo
@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2017 David Pirotte <david at altosw dot be>.
@c See the file guile-cv.texi for copying conditions.


@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

This manual describes how to use Guile-CV.  It relates particularly
to Guile-CV version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Contributors to this manual::
* Guile-CV License::
@end menu


@node Contributors to this manual
@unnumberedsec Contributors to this Manual

Like Guile-CV itself, the Guile-CV reference manual is a living
entity. Right now, the contributor to this manual is:

@itemize @bullet
@item David Pirotte
@end itemize

who is also the author and maintainer of Guile-CV.

You are most welcome to join and help.  Visit @uref{@value{UGUILE-CV},
Guile-CV} web site to find out how to get involved.


@node Guile-CV License
@unnumberedsec The Guile-CV License
@cindex copying
@cindex GPL
@cindex license

Guile-CV is Free Software.  Guile-CV is copyrighted, not
public domain, and there are restrictions on its distribution or
redistribution:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Guile-CV and supporting files are published under the terms of
the GNU Lesser General Public License version 3 or later.  See the file
@file{LICENSE}.

@item
This manual is published under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
License (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}).
@end itemize

You must be aware there is no warranty whatsoever for Guile-CV.
This is described in full in the license.


@c Local Variables:
@c TeX-master: "guile-cv.texi"
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
@c End:
